---
layout: post
title:  "Healthcare Hackathon at Columbia	University in Feb 2023"
date:   2023-01-03 10:55
author: Kristin M.
---

Columbia University’s BMES (Biomedical Engineering Society) will be hosting a IN-PERSON Healthcare Hackathon on February 18th to 19th 2023 at Columbia University in the City of New York. You all are invited to sign up. This all-day, 2-day event will consist of people with diverse perspectives such as clinicians, engineers, designers, software developers and entrepreneurs come together in an intense, fun-filled, two-day weekend to develop and build solutions that could address challenges facing healthcare today. The event will consist of plenty of networking opportunities with fellow peers and graduate students.

Prizes will be awarded to the top teams! Signups are free! 

During this hackathon, participants will collaborate in less than 36 hours to focus on a specific problem or idea in healthcare to come up with innovative ideas and solutions. Collaborate with your peers to form your teams beforehand and sign up with them. Each member must fill out the form for the team signup to be considered complete. Fill out this form for signups for the hackathon by January 15th 2022 11:59 PM EST. This is a hard deadline as we will re-confirm all teams shortly after!

Feel free to sign up even if you do not have any computational/technical background as there will be tracks covering topics in many majors/backgrounds/interests! Your ideas and designs can be pitched according to your interests as long as they are connected to health and medicine!

Here is the link to the signup form: https://forms.gle/iEqh77R74ZMVXUhQ9
Here are the FAQs: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12By0VDaANDDG1pgEuzOBGelAhkF3eLfg2fRgrNTNzvU/edit
Here is our instagram as well to follow for more information: https://www.instagram.com/columbiabmes/
