---
layout: post
title:  "CPSC 490 Guest Speaker Series - IBM and Yale Ventures!"
date:   2023-04-21 10:06:00
author: Tyler S. on behalf of Sohee P.
---
CPSC 490 Guest Speaker Series presents the following in Spring 2023. All are welcome. Please let me know if you want to speak with the guest speaker after the class. 

1:30 PM  Fri. March 10, 2023, @ WTS A53
Guest Speaker:  Josh Geballe, Senior Associate Provost for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Yale University | Managing Director of Yale Ventures
Title: Entrepreneurship and Innovation
 
1:30 PM  Fri. April 21, 2023, @ WTS A53
Guest Speaker: Raphael (Rafi) Ezry, Managing Partner, US Industrial Market at IBM Consulting


Bio - Josh Geballe
Josh Geballe is Senior Associate Provost for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Yale University and Managing Director of Yale Ventures. He is responsible for a wide range of services for students, faculty and the broader New Haven community to help launch new startups and provide training in entrepreneurship and innovation. Additional services include providing streamlined access to Yale intellectual property and sponsored research with Yale scholars, establishing partnerships to expand the impact of Yale discoveries, and growing the New Haven startup ecosystem.  

Prior to joining Yale Ventures in 2022 Josh served as Chief Operating Officer for the State of Connecticut under Governor Ned Lamont.  With responsibility for all executive branch agencies covering 30,000 employees he led successful initiatives to modernize state operations and expand the use of technology to improve services and reduce costs. In addition, he led the state's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, establishing nationally recognized programs for testing, contact tracing, nursing home protection, safe school operations and vaccination.

Prior to his three years in public service Josh spent his career in the technology industry, most recently as CEO of Core Informatics, a venture-backed scientific software company that was acquired by Thermo Fisher Scientific where he went on to serve as Vice President and General Manager of Digital Science.  Previously he spent 11 years at IBM in a variety of international executive roles.

Josh holds an MBA from the Yale School of Management and a BA from Yale University.

Bio - Raphael (Rafi) Ezry
Rafi is the Managing Partner for the North American Industrial Market at IBM Consulting. In this role, Rafi partners with clients to realize the value of digital transformation and intelligent workflows with AI & Hybrid Cloud at the core. Rafi leads thousands of global practitioners delivering consulting services for Auto, Aerospace, Defense, Chemicals, Oil & Gas, Industrial Products, and Electronics clients. Rafi served in multiple leadership roles at IBM Consulting including leading the Americas Process Transformation service lines and the Global Advanced Analytics practice. He has an MBA from Columbia University, BSc in Industrial Engineering, and 6 granted US patents. He lives in NYC with his wife and three kids.

Best regards, 

Sohee Kim Park
